---
layout: post
title: "insanity"
date: 2026-03-22 12:00:00 -0300
categories: [substack, english]
tags: [philosophy, writing, time]
description: "How do you describe something that only exists as a motion? How do you describe something that the moment that you look at it it already changed into somethi..."
---

> reality

How do you describe something that only exists as a motion? How do you describe something that the moment that you look at it it already changed into something else? How do I describe a philosophy that by the nature of what it is, it isn’t a philosophy?!

That’s the problem in my writing. The focal point is never what I’m writing about. As with any piece of human produced knowledge, the focal point is the human that produced it. That’s the interesting part. That’s the unique part.

But the problem is that I refuse to solidify into something. I refuse to stop flowing. Any of my analogies exist only to analyze the thing that I’m analyzing and only for the amount of time that I’m doing that analysis.

I have no intent of ever creating a method of analyzing reality that is a one size fits all and that stays solid for long enough to be described and developed into a philosophical system. I believe those things are relics of the past. We live in a time where a thinker is not someone who has a great way of thinking, instead, it is someone who is great at constantly creating ways of thinking. Each day, each week, each year, our world is completely different and needs complete reevaluation.

I said before and I’ll say it again, If you believe you’re sane you have gone completely insane. There’s is something extremely wrong with anyone who is sane in a world like ours.
